Feature #2285 read_point_data (#2509)
dtcenter/MET: docs/Users_Guide/appendixF.rst

Introduction
============

MET includes the ability to embed Python to a limited degree. Users may use their own Python scripts and any associated Python packages they wish in order to prepare 2D gridded data fields, point observations, and matched pairs as input to the MET tools. We fully expect that this degree of embedding will increase in the future. In addition, plans are in place to extend Python with MET in upcoming releases, allowing users to invoke MET tools directly from their Python script. While MET version 8.0 was built on Python 2.x, MET versions 9.0 and beyond are built on Python 3.6+.

.. _compiling_python_support:

Compiling MET for Python Embedding
==================================

In order to use Python embedding, a local Python installation must be available when compiling the MET software with the following requirements:

1. Python version 3.10.4+

2. C-language Python header files and libraries

3. **NumPy** Python package

4. **netCDF4** Python package

5. **Pandas** Python package

6. **Xarray** Python package

> Users should be aware that in some cases, the C-language Python header files and libraries may be deleted at the end of the Python installation process, and they may need to confirm their availability prior to compiling MET. Once the user has confirmed the above requirements are satisfied, they can compile the MET software for Python embedding by passing the **\-\-enable-python** opotion to the **configure** script on the command line. This will link the MET C++ code directly to the Python libraries. The **NumPy** and **netCDF4** Python packages are required by Python scripts included with the MET software that facilitate the passing of data in memory and the reading and writing of temporary files with Python embedding is used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Users should be aware that in some cases, the C-language Python header files and libraries may be deleted at the end of the Python installation process, and they may need to confirm their availability prior to compiling MET. Once the user has confirmed the above requirements are satisfied, they can compile the MET software for Python embedding by passing the **\-\-enable-python** option to the **configure** script on the command line. This will link the MET C++ code directly to the Python libraries. The **NumPy** and **netCDF4** Python packages are required by the Python scripts included with the MET software that facilitate the passing of data in memory and the reading and writing of temporary files when Python embedding is used.
```

In addition to using **\-\-enable-python** with **configure** as mentioned above, the following environment variables must also be set prior to executing **configure**: **MET_PYTHON_BIN_EXE**, **MET_PYTHON_CC**, and **MET_PYTHON_LD**. These may either be set as environment variables or as command line options to **configure**. These environment variables are used when building MET to enable the compiler to find the requisite Python executable, header files, and libraries in the user's local filesystem. Fortunately, Python provides a way to set these variables properly. This frees the user from the necessity of having any expert knowledge of the compiling and linking process. Along with the **Python** executable in the users local Python installation, there should be another executable called **python3-config**, whose output can be used to set these environment variables as follows:

• Set **MET_PYTHON_BIN_EXE** to the full path of the desired Python executable.

• On the command line, run "**python3-config \-\-cflags**". Set the value of **MET_PYTHON_CC** to the output of that command.

> • Again on the command line, run "**python3-config \-\-ldflags**". Set the value of **MET_PYTHON_LD** to the output of that command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
• Again on the command line, run "**python3-config \-\-ldflags \-\-embed**". Set the value of **MET_PYTHON_LD** to the output of that command.
```
Many times, without --embed the -lpython3.X is missing and it is essential for it to be there.  However, I believe the --embed option may not work with Python versions lower than 3.9, which is why it was not currently included in the documentation.
